# ELitNet-FastMRI_Recon

Accelerating magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) through undersampled k-space acquisition can provide a promising approach for reducing scan time and enhancing patient throughput. Deep learning-based reconstruction has recently shown strong potential in solving this inherently ill-posed inverse problem. In this article, we introduce ELiTNet, an energy-efficient, lightweight, and computationally thin network for accelerated MRI reconstruction. ELiTNet employs a novel layer-wise attention mechanism to enhance feature representation by selectively focusing on the most relevant image structures, while balancing the overall computational overhead. Further, the proposed consistent gradient based multi-loss strategy ensures preservation of fine textures and subtle anatomical details in the reconstructed image. Both quantitative and qualitative comparisons with the baseline UNet model motivated us to propose a cascaded architecture incorporating a projection-based data consistency (DC) framework, referred to as PBC-ELiTNet, for accelerated MRI reconstruction. Unlike heuristic-based corrections, the DC layer enforces data fidelity through explicit mathematical projections, ensuring better consistency with the acquired k-space data. To demonstrate the potential of proposed deep learning based reconstruction framework, we performed several experiments with fastMRI multi-coil knee dataset using two subsampling mask, $R=4$ and $R=8$, resepctively. Experimental results demonstrate that PBC-ELiTNet consistently attains performance that is either comparable or superior to current state-of-the-art methods in terms of reconstruction accuracy and computational efficiency, offering a favorable trade-off between image quality and processing overhead.
